# Rust API for sustainity-api

API for the sustaininty backend


## Overview

This client/server was generated by the [openapi-generator]
(https://openapi-generator.tech) project.  By using the
[OpenAPI-Spec](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification) from a remote
server, you can easily generate a server stub.

To see how to make this your own, look here:

[README]((https://openapi-generator.tech))

- API version: 0.4.0
- Build date: 2025-08-04T14:47:10.904927+02:00[Europe/Amsterdam]
- Generator version: 7.13.0



This autogenerated project defines an API crate `sustainity-api` which contains:
* An `Api` trait defining the API in Rust.
* Data types representing the underlying data model.
* A `Client` type which implements `Api` and issues HTTP requests for each operation.
* A router which accepts HTTP requests and invokes the appropriate `Api` method for each operation.
* A CLI tool to drive basic API operations from the command line.

It also contains an example server and client which make use of `sustainity-api`:

* The example server starts up a web server using the `sustainity-api`
    router, and supplies a trivial implementation of `Api` which returns failure
    for every operation.
* The example client provides a CLI which lets you invoke
    any single operation on the `sustainity-api` client by passing appropriate
    arguments on the command line.

You can use the example server and client as a basis for your own code.
See below for [more detail on the examples](#using-the-generated-library).

## CLI

Run the included CLI tool with:

```
cargo run --bin cli --features=cli
```

To pass in arguments, put them after `--`, for example:

```
cargo run --bin cli --features=cli -- --help
```

See the help text for available options.

To build a standalone tool, use:

```
cargo build --bin cli --features=cli --release
```

You'll find the binary at `target/release/cli`.

## Examples

Run examples with:

```
cargo run --example <example-name>
```

To pass in arguments to the examples, put them after `--`, for example:

```
cargo run --example client -- --help
```

### Running the example server
To run the server, follow these simple steps:

```
cargo run --example server
```

### Running the example client
To run a client, follow one of the following simple steps:

```
cargo run --example client CheckHealth
cargo run --example client GetLibrary
cargo run --example client SearchByText
cargo run --example client GetCategory
```

### HTTPS
The examples can be run in HTTPS mode by passing in the flag `--https`, for example:

```
cargo run --example server -- --https
```

This will use the keys/certificates from the examples directory. Note that the
server chain is signed with `CN=localhost`.

## Using the generated library

The generated library has a few optional features that can be activated through Cargo.

* `server`
    * This defaults to enabled and creates the basic skeleton of a server implementation based on hyper
    * To create the server stack you'll need to provide an implementation of the API trait to provide the server function.
* `client`
    * This defaults to enabled and creates the basic skeleton of a client implementation based on hyper
    * The constructed client implements the API trait by making remote API call.
* `conversions`
    * This defaults to disabled and creates extra derives on models to allow "transmogrification" between objects of structurally similar types.
* `cli`
    * This defaults to disabled and is required for building the included CLI tool.

See https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html#the-features-section for how to use features in your `Cargo.toml`.

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *http://localhost*

Method | HTTP request | Description
------------- | ------------- | -------------
[**checkHealth**](docs/default_api.md#checkHealth) | **GET** / | Health check
[**getLibrary**](docs/default_api.md#getLibrary) | **GET** /library | Get library contents.
[**searchByText**](docs/default_api.md#searchByText) | **GET** /search/text | Text search.
[**getCategory**](docs/default_api.md#getCategory) | **GET** /category/{category} | Get category.
[**getLibraryItem**](docs/default_api.md#getLibraryItem) | **GET** /library/{topic} | Get library item.
[**getAlternatives**](docs/default_api.md#getAlternatives) | **GET** /product/{productIdVariant}:{id}/alternatives | Get product alternatives.
[**getOrganisation**](docs/default_api.md#getOrganisation) | **GET** /organisation/{organisationIdVariant}:{id} | Get organisation.
[**getProduct**](docs/default_api.md#getProduct) | **GET** /product/{productIdVariant}:{id} | Get product.


## Documentation For Models

 - [Accuracy](docs/Accuracy.md)
 - [BCorpMedallion](docs/BCorpMedallion.md)
 - [BadgeName](docs/BadgeName.md)
 - [Category](docs/Category.md)
 - [CategoryAlternatives](docs/CategoryAlternatives.md)
 - [CategoryFull](docs/CategoryFull.md)
 - [CategoryShort](docs/CategoryShort.md)
 - [CategoryStatus](docs/CategoryStatus.md)
 - [DataSource](docs/DataSource.md)
 - [EuEcolabelMedallion](docs/EuEcolabelMedallion.md)
 - [FtiMedallion](docs/FtiMedallion.md)
 - [Id](docs/Id.md)
 - [Image](docs/Image.md)
 - [LibraryContents](docs/LibraryContents.md)
 - [LibraryItemFull](docs/LibraryItemFull.md)
 - [LibraryItemShort](docs/LibraryItemShort.md)
 - [LibraryTopic](docs/LibraryTopic.md)
 - [LongString](docs/LongString.md)
 - [LongText](docs/LongText.md)
 - [Medallion](docs/Medallion.md)
 - [MedallionVariant](docs/MedallionVariant.md)
 - [Medium](docs/Medium.md)
 - [Mention](docs/Mention.md)
 - [OrganisationFull](docs/OrganisationFull.md)
 - [OrganisationIdVariant](docs/OrganisationIdVariant.md)
 - [OrganisationIds](docs/OrganisationIds.md)
 - [OrganisationShort](docs/OrganisationShort.md)
 - [Presentation](docs/Presentation.md)
 - [PresentationEntry](docs/PresentationEntry.md)
 - [ProductFull](docs/ProductFull.md)
 - [ProductIdVariant](docs/ProductIdVariant.md)
 - [ProductIds](docs/ProductIds.md)
 - [ProductShort](docs/ProductShort.md)
 - [ReferenceLink](docs/ReferenceLink.md)
 - [RegionCode](docs/RegionCode.md)
 - [Score](docs/Score.md)
 - [ScorerName](docs/ScorerName.md)
 - [ShoppingEntry](docs/ShoppingEntry.md)
 - [ShortString](docs/ShortString.md)
 - [ShortText](docs/ShortText.md)
 - [SustainityMedallion](docs/SustainityMedallion.md)
 - [SustainityScore](docs/SustainityScore.md)
 - [SustainityScoreBranch](docs/SustainityScoreBranch.md)
 - [SustainityScoreCategory](docs/SustainityScoreCategory.md)
 - [TcoMedallion](docs/TcoMedallion.md)
 - [TextSearchLinkHack](docs/TextSearchLinkHack.md)
 - [TextSearchResult](docs/TextSearchResult.md)
 - [TextSearchResults](docs/TextSearchResults.md)
 - [VerifiedShop](docs/VerifiedShop.md)


## Documentation For Authorization
Endpoints do not require authorization.


## Author



